In the Occupancy Grid Mapping Algorithm,
you saw the inverse sensor model which is the probability of the map
giving the measurements and the poses in its log odds representation.
As a reminder, the advantage of using
log odds representation is to avoid any numerical instabilities near zero or one.
To demonstrate that, let's recover the probability of
the map giving the data from the log odds representation.
Now, you can see how the probability of the map is bounded between zero and one.
Mobile robots equipped with range finder sensors instantaneously
detect obstacles and return measurements in a conical field of view.
At the border of this cone robots can only sense portion of
the cells and thus, probabilities are weak.
Due to weak probabilities,
it's hard and complex to compute the state of the cells at the border of the cone.
To simplify this problem and estimate the state of the cells within,
at the border and outside of the measurement cone
an inverse sensor model algorithm is introduced.
With this algorithm, you can estimate if the current cell is free, occupied or unknown.
The inverse sensor model algorithm takes each cell,
the poses and measurements as parameters.
First, the range for the center of mass of the cell is computed.
Here, x_i and y_i are the center of mass of the cell m_i.
R is the range for the center of mass,
computed with respect to the center of mass and robot position.
Next, the beam index k is computed with
respect to the center of mass of the cell and the robot pose.
Now, two parameters are introduced.
Beta is the opening angle of the mean and alpha,
it's the width of the region.
If a cell lies outside the measurement range of
the sensor beam or more than alpha over two behind it's detected range,
then the state of this cell is considered as unknown and it's
initial or prior state l0 and it's log odds form is returned.
Now, the cell is considered as occupied if it ranges
between negative and positive alpha over two of the detected range.
Finally, the cell is considered as free if the range of
this cell is shorter than the measured range by more than alpha over two.